# About me
I've been interested in the human condition and human nature, as long as I can remember. As a child, my father was the shipping manager for an importer of books and periodicals to South Africa. Besides the Mad magazine (which must have twisted my young mind in all kinds of good directions), every year I received my 'annuals'. Strangely, these were 'kids' books, but they always had something in them related to 'fortune-telling'. There were articles on 'face' fortunes, where you could tell someone's character by the spacing between the eyes, the height of the brow, the length of the chin. Today I know this is face reading, and apparently it's an ancient technique, commonly used in Asia. Then there was palmisty, and offcourse astrology. 

At 13, I bought my first actual astrology book, offcourse it was Linda Goodman's best seller, Sun Signs. Amazingly, so many astrologers started with this book. I became fascinated, and searched local bookstores for anything I could find. At 15 or 16, I came across a tattered copy of Derek and Julia Parker's The Complete Astrologer, and I used this book to teach myself eventually how to draw up a birth chart, a horoscope. No computers in those days! It was the right resource to start my serious study. Years and years later, I took a diploma course with Rod Suskin, a South African sangoma and astrologer. The book prescribed for the first year was Derek and Julia Parkers 'The Complete Astrologer' (updated and revised ofcourse), and I bought that brand new copy. 

# Blogs
