# June 28th, 2014

One of the practical uses of astrology is to aid fertility and conception. Nicky Smuts is a wonderful South African astrologer who lives between London
and Cape Town and specialises in 'fertility astrology'.

I attended a workshop with Nicky in 2006. One of the practical points Nicky raised was that IV treatment should NOT be scheduled so that the starting of the
heartbeat of the foetus will kick in to co-incide with a solar or lunar eclipse. Since the heartbeat of the foetus starts at 5-6 weeks, Nicky advised not to have IV so
that the heartbeart starting co-incides with the eclipse. Another recommendation is to go away from your usual location to 'change your
stars'. The stars are fixed at your location. Conception is often known to occur 'on holiday'. You literally 'change your stars' when you move or go on holiday.

Multiple points are considered to understand fertility in the chart. One 'bad' placement is not enough to make a judgement but the condition of Mercury in the
chart is an important marker for fertility. The condition of Mercury is studied in the mother's birthchart because Mercury rules the Fallopian tubes. Conception is
favoured when the planet Mercury is with the following fixed stars at the time you're trying to conceive: best is Sadalsuud (23 degrees Aquarius) and
Sadalmelik (3 degrees Pisces). Mercury at the position of Aldebaran (9 degrees Gemini) or Regulus (0 degrees Virgo) is also beneficial. Mercury takes around 88
days to travel around the birthchart (its orbit) so it reaches these positions fairly frequently throughout the year. Mercury's current position is at 24 degrees of
Gemini.

Some other indicators to look at for Mercury include the position of Mercury (the house), its dignity (rulership), too close to the Sun, or aspecting 'problem' planets
and points (Saturn, Neptune, Pluto, Uranus, and/or the Moon's south node). We also look at the Ascendant in the chart and its ruler (your body), the condition of
the 5th house and its ruler (children), the condition of the Moon. Clearly all of this is not a straighforward exercise and add to this that an individual
requiring fertility assistance is undergoing a traumatic experience. For this reason an astrology fertility analysis requires the experience and knowledge of an
empathetic expert.

The purpose of this note is only to highlight the practical work of astrology, and astrologers.
